# AMWA NMOS Network Control API Specification: Network Flow

_(c) AMWA 2017, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

The Network Flow API provides the mechanism to establish and transport flows between senders and receivers. The Network Flow API provides endpoints for both unicast and multicast flows.    

## Unicast Flow

## Multicast Flow

In the case of multicast flows, the Broadcast Controller provides the Flow metadata such as multicast group and optionally port numbers if applicable, bandwidth, and QoS tags (DSCP) information.  The API then identifies who can send to the multicast group with the Senders POST API call.  At this stage, the senders are allowed to send traffic into the network but since there are no receivers yet, the packets will drop at ingress of the source switch.
The Receiver POST API permits addition of receiver(s) to the multicast group.  The POST of receivers not only tells the fabric which receivers are permitted to receive the flow but expects the flow to be transported from the sender to the receiver.  In other words, the POST receivers API call has the same effect of the IGMP join.  
The Receiver POST API call defines the Multicast group which the receiver would like to receive.  It can optionally provider the sender information as well to work in a Source Specific Multicast (SSM) environment. If no sender information is specific in the POST Receiver API call, then all senders’ flow to the specified Multicast group will be transmitted to the receiver thus operating in an Any Source Multicast (ASM) environment. 
The bandwidth information in the metadata provided earlier by the BC is used by the Network Controller to perform resource reservation and identify the best path that the flow should take.  The QoS information provided is used to classify and schedule the traffic based on the QoS settings in the network. 


#### Co-existence of IGMP operations with Network API

Many people have asked about the co-existence of network Control API with IGMP Join and Leave. With the IS-05 providing the flow information to the receiver endpoint, a receiver endpoint is quite capable of issuing an IGMP joins and leaves.   The two mechanisms can co-exist very nicely with the model proposed above.  The BC will continue to issue Flow API and the Sender API.  However, there will be no POST Receivers.  This will be instead done by the receivers themselves issuing IGMP Joins and Leaves. 
The above allows the flow to be set up by the BC using the POST Receiver API  for some receivers while other receivers request the flows themselves using IGMP requests. 
